Since the beginning of Christianity,
Christians have been persecuted.
Please locate with me
2 Corinthians chapter 11.
Paul experienced persecution
and referred to it at 2 Corinthians
chapter 11, verses 23-25,
and it says: “Are they ministers of Christ?
“I reply like a madman,
I am more outstandingly one:
“I have done more work,
been imprisoned more often,
“suffered countless beatings,
“and experienced many near-deaths.
“Five times I received
40 strokes less one from the Jews,
“three times I was beaten with rods,
once I was stoned,
“three times I experienced shipwreck,
a night and a day
I have spent in the open sea.”
Shortly after recounting
his many difficulties,
in chapter 12, verse 10,
Paul wrote:
“So I take pleasure in weaknesses,
“in insults, in times of need,
“in persecutions and difficulties,
for Christ.
For when I am weak, then I am powerful.”
Of course, Paul took no pleasure
in persecution itself,
but he rejoiced
because of what can result from it,
contributing to Jehovah’s vindication.
Find Philippians 1:14
and then verse 18.
Persecution gives us also an opportunity
to see Jehovah act in behalf of his people
and magnify his name.
It can lead to a fine witness.
At Philippians 1:14, 18,
Paul wrote:
“Now most of the brothers in the Lord
“have gained confidence
because of my prison bonds,
“and they are showing all the more courage
to speak the word of God fearlessly.”
And verse 18: “With what result?
“Only that in every way,
whether in pretense or in truth,
“Christ is being proclaimed,
and I rejoice over this.
In fact, I will also keep on rejoicing.”
Instead of weakening our relationship
with Jehovah and our hope,
persecution can strengthen it.
In the discussion recorded at Romans 5:3, 4,
Paul explains:
“Let us [exult] while in tribulations . . . ;
“endurance, [leads to],
an approved condition;
“the approved condition, in turn, [to] hope,
and the hope
does not lead to disappointment.”
There is no doubt that hope helps us mightily
to endure persecution.
The Bible uses the word “hope”
in different contexts.
It speaks of the “hope of salvation,”
which can refer to spiritual salvation.
There is hope of surviving Armageddon.
There’s hope of everlasting life
on the Paradise earth.
There’s hope of immortality in heaven.
What hope was he talking
about at Romans 5:3, 4?
About the heavenly hope.
Look at the context;
Romans 5:2
and the second part of the verse says:
“Let us rejoice,
based on hope of the glory of God.”
All Christians in the first century
had the heavenly hope.
Their hope was not just that problems
or world conditions would be resolved
or that they would get healed
from some sickness.
Their hope was the heavenly hope.
Colossians 1:3 says:
“We always thank God . . .
when we pray for you . . .
“because of the hope that is being reserved
for you in the heavens.”
Now please turn to Romans
chapter 8, verses 20 and 21.
The “great crowd” of Jehovah’s Witnesses
today hope that Jehovah
will reward them in an earthly paradise.
Paul pointed to that hope when he wrote
at Romans 8:20, 21:
“For the creation was subjected to futility,
“not by its own will,
but through the one who subjected it,
“on the basis of hope
“that the creation itself
will also be set free
“from enslavement to corruption
and have the glorious freedom
of the children of God.”
However, when Paul said
at Romans 12:12
to “rejoice in the hope” ahead,
he meant the heavenly hope.
But the “other sheep”
can also rejoice in the hope
that’s ahead of them.
So, then, we can all rejoice triumphantly.
The world’s hope is dark;
your hope is bright.
The world’s hope is collapsing;
your hope nears fulfillment.
The world’s hope is based on credulity;
your hope is based on faith.
The world’s hope leads to disappointment;
your hope leads to success.
For with the new world so very near,
our fondest hopes,
whether heavenly or earthly,
will soon be realized
to our eternal satisfaction.
Let’s read together Titus 2:13:
“While we wait for the happy hope
“and glorious manifestation of the great God
and of our Savior, Jesus Christ.”
Furthermore, according to Romans 8:24, 25,
hope will help us to endure.
“Hope that is seen is not hope, . . .
“but if we hope for what we do not see,
we keep [on] waiting for it with endurance,”
the scripture says.
There are degrees of hope.
How can we strengthen or deepen our hope?
As to the term “hope”:
“In the Bible,
the basic sense of the Greek term el·pisʹ,
“used here, [means] ‘expectation of good.’
“In this context,
Paul mentions hope last in a series
“—after tribulation, endurance,
“an approved condition.
“So he is obviously
not referring to the initial hope
“gained by accepting the good news from God.
“Rather, he is referring to a reinforced hope
“that a Christian can gain after enduring.
“When a Christian faithfully endures trials,
“he realizes that he has God’s approval.
This realization
strengthens his initial hope.”
Like Paul,
we can rejoice despite persecution.
We may encounter
hateful words and actions at school,
at work, in our family,
or as a result of governmental restrictions.
At Matthew 5:11, 12,
in the Sermon on the Mount,
Jesus said the following:
“Happy are you when people reproach you
“and persecute you
and lyingly say every sort of wicked thing
“against you for my sake.
“Rejoice and be overjoyed,
“since your reward is great in the heavens,
for in that way
they persecuted the prophets prior to you.”
As you watch the following video,
note which provisions
helped our brother and sister to rejoice
despite persecution.
Early one morning,
armed Russian special forces
broke into my home.
They handcuffed me
and searched my place.
They took me
to the FSB office for interrogation.
Two days later, the court sentenced
me to pretrial detention.
I was scared because I didn’t know
how I would be treated in prison.
Threatening that things would
get worse for me, the officer demanded
that I incriminate myself, admit guilt,
and give the names of my fellow believers.
I also really missed my dear wife.
It was so hard without her.
For two months, I didn’t have
any spiritual food or a Bible,
so I decided to make one.
My wife sent me a notebook,
and every day I wrote down verses
that I was able to remember.
After I had written about 500 verses,
I was given a Bible.
Because I was
so spiritually hungry,
I read it through in four months.
During this time,
I wrote letters
to my wife and friends
and shared interesting things
that I learned from my reading.
But the letters I received
from my friends and my dear wife
gave me the feeling
that the brothers and sisters
were so close to me,
as if they were in the cells next to me.
I wasn’t lonely.
I felt as if my friends
were right there with me.
Pretrial detention
isolates a person from society.
But it’s impossible to isolate
someone from Jehovah.
Throughout the day,
I prayed to Jehovah many times,
but I especially waited for bedtime.
When everyone was in bed
and only the night-light was on,
I could talk to Jehovah as much as I wanted.
There were times when I was all alone
in the cell and, of course,
I took advantage of the situation.
I would get down on my knees
and would literally cry
as I prayed to Jehovah.
I decided to write my requests to God
on a sheet of paper and then mark off
the ones that he answered.
I was convinced that Jehovah
was very close to me.
I also quietly sang our songs
throughout the day.
But when I was all alone,
I sang at the top of my voice.
I also tried to give
a witness whenever possible.
We discussed a variety of topics
—everything from tattoos
to “the king of the north.”
All my fears
and anxieties were for nothing.
I was in detention 343 days,
and “not even a hair” fell from my head.
This was the most interesting
year of my life
—an excellent school to help
refine my spiritual qualities.
I have never felt so close to Jehovah.
What a great honor
to uphold God’s sovereignty in this way!
What is helping you today to rejoice
despite any opposition
you may be experiencing now?
It is your relationship with Jehovah,
the brotherhood,
and your heavenly or earthly hope
—all these things.
May we rejoice
in the love of Jehovah and our brothers.
If you are enduring persecution,
be assured that your brothers
—not only your friends,
not only brothers in your congregation,
but all around the earth
—are praying in your behalf.
Angels observe you
and feel proud if you stay faithful.
You can greatly contribute
to the encouragement of the faithful angels.
Like Jehovah, Jesus, and the angels,
your brothers can “take pride in you”
and rejoice
“because of your endurance and faith”
despite persecution.
Brother William Turner,
a helper to the Service Committee,
will now present the next talk
of this symposium,
“We Can Rejoice Despite . . . Hunger.”